I conducted an analysis of the various factors that influence the recurrence intervals of landslides, with the purpose of identifying the most important things to look for when predicting when and where landslides will occur. The primary factors I looked at were soil cohesion, internal angle of friction, ratio of soil saturation, and soil transport coefficient. Identifying the things that most increase the frequency at which landslides occur is important for being able to accurately predict landslides, with the ultimate goal of protecting human life and minimizing the damage caused. 

For my analysis, I performed a Monte Carlo simulation in which distributions of possible recurrence intervals were constructed using simulated values of the variables listed previously. I used these values to calculate four sets of 100,000 possible recurrence intervals, each set having been calculated with a different variable fixed at a predetermined value. I then repeated this process with a slightly different methodology; instead of drawing the values from a uniform distribution, I used a normal distribution. This ultimately produced the distributions I would use for the rest of my analysis.  

Once the distributions had been created, it became apparent that soil cohesion had a significantly larger impact on the recurrence interval than any of the other three variables. I came to this conclusion because the distribution of recurrence intervals with a fixed value of soil cohesion was much narrower than the other distributions. The difference in variance between the fixed soil cohesion distribution and the others was extreme, with the other distributions having standard deviations between five and eight times larger. My results also led me to believe that varying the value of the internal angle of friction had the smallest effect on the recurrence interval values because the variance was consistently highest when this value was fixed. 

My findings indicate that when attempting to predict landslides, soil cohesion and the general makeup of soil should be carefully considered. This implies to me that visual or surface level analysis of landscapes will not be effective in determining which areas are at risk of landslides because determining their frequency relies heavily on an inherent characteristic of the soil that cannot be visually identified.
